---
layout:     post
title:      SEMTL Meeting at McGill
author:     Jessie Galasso, Maximilian Schiedermeier
tags: 		  McGill
subtitle:  	Meeting at McGill (2024-05-02, 09:30)
category:   meeting
event_date: 2024-05-02
---

A meeting of the SEMTL community will be held on **Thursday, May 2nd, 2024**, 9:30 AM. It will take place at the **McGill University, [McIntyre Medical Building, Room MCMED 325](https://maps.mcgill.ca/?id=McIntyre)**.

### Registration

Please RSVP using [this form](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1fG5uRQbvPufsGLUAnelnuzTSneUVe6L1RDAD7ZTWeIE/edit#gid=1489292499).

### Program

 * 9:30-9:35: Welcome and outline
 * 9:35-10:30: Keynote by [**Benoit Combemale**](https://people.irisa.fr/Benoit.Combemale/):  
*"There Is Only One Time In Software Engineering!"*
 * 10:30-11:00 Break & Chat
 * 11:00-12:00 Student Lightning Talks
 * 12:00-1:00: Optional Off-Campus Social Event

### Slides and Notes

 * Keynote: **Benoit Combemale** - *There Is Only One Time In Software Engineering!*
 > TBA
 * Lightning talk, **Remain Lefeuvre** - *Context aware analysis of software energy efficiency at application level : Motivation and Opportunities*  
 > The constant ICT sector growth have a direct impact on its attributed share on the global electricity consumption. Estimated at 4% in 2020, worst case studies scenario suggests that this share could  reach 51% in 2030.
Energy efficiency optimization at the application software level has a growing interest in the literature. However, approaches and techniques seem to be strongly linked to the experimental context, which could prevent the generalization of the findings to another context. We propose to consider energy efficiency as a quality attribute that should be taken into consideration during the whole software lifecycle.
We aim to characterize the context and variability points that have an impact on the energy consumption of a software. Having such characterization may open the perspective to produce contextualized energy efficiency recommendation.
 * Lightning talk, **Erica De Petrillo** - *Automatic Generation of Projects for Model-Based Programming Courses*  
 > While learning by example can be very beneficial, providing students with complete working applications in model-based programming courses can be a real challenge due to time and resource constraints. The aim of the proposed FeatureLanguage is to completely generate the backend (i.e., Controller and Model) and the test suite of a Model-View-Controller (MVC) application suitable for a university course, as well as eventually also the View. The proposed FeatureLanguage is an extension of a domain model with a specification of the different features the application should be able to accommodate as well as constraints that need to be enforced.
 * Lightning talk, **Fozail Ahmad** - *Hybrid Cloudification of Legacy Software for Efficient Simulation of Gas Turbine Designs*  
 > When developing aeroderivative gas turbines at Siemens Energy, engine models are subject to complex simulation campaigns for finite element analysis carried out by a legacy simulation tool. This paper presents results of a multi-year software modernization project to provide a software-as-a-service (SaaS) framework that enables the distributed and automated execution of simulation jobs over a hybrid cloud platform containing both private cloud and public cloud nodes. Our framework allows to significantly reduce the net time required for completing complex simulation campaigns, thus increasing the effectiveness of engineers. The performance of our framework is evaluated in various cloud configurations with complex simulation campaigns performed in the context of a real simulation task.
 * Ligthning talk, **Deeksha Arya** - *Communicating Study Design Trade-Offs in Software Engineering*  
 > When conducting a study, there are a number of decisions that need to be made during the research process, which may introduce limitations to the work. Discussing these limitations is important to contextualize the work. However, current discussions of limitations or threats to validity do not provide much insight into the rationale behind the informed decision making. We propose that researchers organize their self-reflection of the decisions in a study as a discussion of trade-offs, that clarify how study design decisions made are favorable over possible alternatives. We propose guidelines for communicating trade-offs for software engineering research studies.
 > Paper link: [https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3649598](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3649598)

### Localisation

 > We are NOT in our usual location! The room is in [*McIntyre Medical Building*](https://maps.mcgill.ca/?id=McIntyre). For those coming by metro, the closest station is **Peel**.

<div style="width: 100%"><iframe width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="https://maps.google.com/maps?width=100%25&amp;height=600&amp;hl=en&amp;q=mcintyre%20medical%20science%20building+(SE@MTL,%20McGill)&amp;t=&amp;z=15&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;iwloc=B&amp;output=embed"><a href="https://www.gps.ie/">gps vehicle tracker</a></iframe></div>

### Social Event

We have a table reserved at *3 Brasseurs* or *Benelux* for Lunch. The social event starts 12:15 PM.

<div style="width: 100%"><iframe width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="https://maps.google.com/maps?width=100%25&amp;height=600&amp;hl=en&amp;q=trois%20brasseurs%20mcgill%20st%20catherine%20montreal+(3%20Brasseurs)&amp;t=&amp;z=16&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;iwloc=B&amp;output=embed"><a href="https://www.gps.ie/">gps systems</a></iframe></div>
